---
layout: post
title: New Yorkers' Battle Greenhouse Gas Emissions?
subtitle: An Analysis of Greenhouse Gas Emissions of NYC Buildings
image: http://inhabitat.com/wp-content/blogs.dir/1/files/2012/10/carbon-quilt-video-1.jpg
bigimg: http://inhabitat.com/wp-content/blogs.dir/1/files/2012/10/carbon-quilt-video-1.jpg
---

I am a frequent traveller and a nature lover. My wife and I take every opportunity that we get to travel to naturally beautiful places away from the hustle and bustle of New York City. During those travels we have come to experience first hand the effects of climate change. I believe that climate change is the biggest crisis facing our world today. 

As a resident of NYC, I decided to take a look at what my home city is doing to avoid the worst effects of climate change. 

### Background ###

The cornerstone of NYC's climate change policy is the goal of "80 by 50", an 80% reduction in greenhouses gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2050. Of citywide greenhouse gas emissions in the baseline year of 2005, 68% can be attributed to buildings, 27% to transportation and 5% to waste. For my analysis, I decided to take a deep dive into the 68% of emissions from buildings. This covers the energy used to power, heat, and cool buildings, which includes emissions from burning fossil fuels both onsite (for heat and hot water), and in power plants (to generate electricity).  

### Data ###

In 2009, NYC introduced local law 84, which required owners of buildings over 50,000 gross square feet to report their energy and water consumption annually. This law was the first in NYC to require energy information from private building owners, and serves as a primary means of tracking progress on achieving the goals of "80 by 50". There are now four years of data from local law 84 (2011 through 2014) available through the [NYC Open Data platform](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Environment/Energy-and-Water-Data-Disclosure-for-Local-Law-84-/q39e-7gbs).

### Analysis ###

2011 was first year of data collection, and since there was only sparse data for this year, I excluded it from my analysis. Another challenge I faced was that data for subsequent years was riddled with outliers, since building owners were not penalized for inaccurate submissions to the city.

Based on guidance from an engineer who was involved in retrofitting NYC buildings to improve their energy consumption, I used a Site Energy Utilization of 60,000 KBtu/Sq.Ft to remove outliers. I was able to confirm that my data set is in the correct ball park after comparing total building greenhouse gas emissions to a report published by NYC mayor's office of sustainability in 2014.


